the United Nations is now saying that
about a third of all humanitarian Aid
missions to Gaza this month have been
denied access to the strip it comes as
the Health Care System nears collapse
and the number of people going hungry
increases every day Palestinians ceue
for hours to get basic necessities like
food and water world food program says
nearly the entire population is facing
acute food
insecurity Karin fler is the world food
program's Regional director for the
Middle East North Africa and Eastern
Europe she joins us now from Cairo how
is your organization getting food and
other supplies into
Gaza well it's very difficult right now
um we are not bringing in enough food
and so uh we have to actually Cel or
reduce the rations that we provide we
provide assistance to about 1 million
people every month we provide ready to
eat food we provide cooked meals we
support about 80 kitchen across the
strip uh we give some uh nutrition food
but we don't bring in enough and there
are you know three reasons for that one
is there not enough water crossing
points open and we just have the north
Aras and a little bit through kamam
Shalom the second is once we get through
there is a problem of Law and Order in
uh inside Gaza that you know makes us
have to be very tactical when do we
bring food in so that we are not getting
looted and then uh thirdly it's just a
very complicated operations it you know
it took me I was there just very
recently it took me 7 hours to go from
the balak to the north where we receive
uh uh the Commodities at the border
crossing point because roads are
destroyed uh you know they are full of
people and uh you know we wait for green
lights and we wait at checkpoints uh
because it's just a very insecure
operation well you're working in a war
zone as you say the roads are destroyed
oper ations are very complicated so are
you how much are you getting in compared
to the the desperation and the need that
exists in Gaza right
now well last month we brought in a
little bit more than half of what we
require but you know also inside Gaza it
is very very difficult you know with the
with the evacuation orders affecting so
many people but also affecting the
operations we had you know to close down
19 foot distribution point point because
of the evacuation orders because in the
in the evacuated zones one of our
warehouses with food inside is not
accessible any longer uh so and so it is
you know for hospitals for for for what
what other organizations do and so the
the basic services are at the brink of
collapse and we need a massive change to
be able uh to to support the people of
Gaza it's now been 10 months uh and
they're just only trying to C hope with
what's
happening what needs to happen to bring
about that massive change because much
of what you describe the this the
situation is as difficult and and and
horrifying as it is with you know
starvation and famine particularly in
Northern Gaza much of this could be
tackled very quickly if Crossing points
were to be
opened well very clearly we do need a
ceasefire uh but with the ceasefire we
do need as you say more Crossing points
to be opened more trucks to be let in uh
and our operations on the ground to be
able to operate in a in a safe manner
for us to be able to operate in a safe
Manner and for people to come and
receive our food in a in a safe manner
it's very dangerous uh I've never been
in such a dangerous operation and I have
been working for the W program for over
years all right Karen fer from the world
food program thank you very much for
updating us
on your operations and what you saw when
you were just recently in
Gaza thank you very
much make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer